---
sidebar_label: 'Grid Intelligence'
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Grid Intelligence

The Grid Intelligence refers to the management layer within the OSED ecosystem. The Grid Intelligence orchestrates the activities of the distributed EDGE DERMS Coordinators deployed across the distribution network. The grid intelligence refers to entities such as the Advanced Distribution Management Systems (ADMS), the Distributed Energy Resources Management Systems (DERMS), multiple aggregators, and Virtual Power Plants (VPPs) or others. At this moment it its not clear whch of those entieties will take the role of managing the EDGE DERMS Coordinators. 

## Composition
There are multiple entities that could perform the role of the Grid Intelligence: 

**Advanced Distribution Management System (ADMS)**: ADMS is tasked with monitoring, controlling, and optimizing the distribution network in real-time, ensuring grid stability and reliability.

**Distributed Energy Resources Management System (DERMS)**: DERMS focuses on managing and coordinating the activities of distributed energy resources (DERs) connected to the distribution grid, including solar PV systems, energy storage units, and electric vehicle charging stations.

**Aggregators**: Aggregators play a pivotal role in consolidating and managing the output of multiple DERs, optimizing their collective participation in energy markets and grid services.

**Virtual Power Plants (VPPs)**: VPPs leverage the aggregated capacity of distributed energy resources to provide grid services, such as demand response, frequency regulation, and capacity reserves.

However, at this point it is not clear which of those entities will interact with the EDGE DERMS Coordinators. 

## Function of the grid Intelligence
The primary function of the Grid Intelligence is to orchestrate the operation of EDGE DERMS coordinators deployed at various points within the distribution system. By analyzing grid conditions, demand forecasts, and market signals, the Grid Intelligence determines the optimal grid funtions to be executed by each EDGE DERMS coordinator to enhance grid performance and achieve system-wide objectives.

## Interaction with EDGE DERMS
The Grid Intelligence establishes communication with EDGE DERMS coordinators through a robust framework facilitating the real-time exchange of data and control commands. Presently, communication primarily occurs via RESTful APIs, offering bidirectional interaction between the Grid Intelligence and EDGE DERMS coordinators. While the current system effectively enables communication, future enhancements may incorporate standardized communication protocols such as IEEE 2030.5 or Open ADR for greater interoperability and compatibility.

Although the current communication framework supports bidirectional data exchange, the volume of information shared between the Grid Intelligence and EDGE DERMS coordinators remains limited. However, future development efforts aim to expand the scope of exchanged information to enhance grid management capabilities. The chosen communication protocol must exhibit the necessary flexibility to facilitate seamless communication between the Grid Intelligence and EDGE Coordinators.

Key data exchanged between EDGE DERMS coordinators and the Grid Intelligence includes fluctuations in aggregated demand and production. In return, the Grid Intelligence provides instructions to EDGE DERMS coordinators regarding the execution of specific Grid Functions tailored to optimize grid performance and address operational requirements effectively.

## Management of EDGE DERMS
While EDGE DERMS coordinators operate at the local level, managing assets and resources within their designated regions, they are not built to be autonomous entities. Instead, they operate under the supervision and direction of the Grid Intelligence. The Grid Intelligence determines the grid functions to be executed by each EDGE DERMS coordinator based on system-wide objectives, operational constraints, and market conditions. This centralized-distirbuted management approach ensures coordination and alignment across distributed assets, maximizing the overall efficiency and resilience of the distribution network.

In essence, the Grid Intelligence acts as the brain of the OSED ecosystem, harnessing advanced analytics, machine learning algorithms, and real-time decision-making capabilities to optimize grid performance, enable demand-side flexibility, and facilitate the integration of renewable energy resources at scale.